[EXP][CUDA] Add initial version of (kernel) Launch Properties extension. (#1643)
oneapi-src/unified-runtime: scripts/core/EXP-LAUNCH-ATTRIBUTES.rst

LAUNCH Properties
================================================================================

.. warning::

    Experimental features:

    *   May be replaced, updated, or removed at any time.
    *   Do not require maintaining API/ABI stability of their own additions over
        time.
    *   Do not require conformance testing of their own additions.

Terminology
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"Launch Properties" is used to indicate optional kernel launch properties that
can be specified at the time of a kernel launch. Such properties can be used to
enable hardware specific kernel launch features.

Motivation
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Advances in hardware sometimes require new kernel properties. One example is
distributed shared memory as used by Nvidia Hopper GPUs. Launching a kernel
that supports distributed shared memory requires specifying a set of "cluster"
dimensions, in units of work-groups, over which the shared memory is
"distributed". Additionally some applications require specification of kernel
properties at launch-time.

> This extension is a future-proof and portable solution that supports these two
> requirements. Instead of using a fixed set of kernel enqueue arguments, the
> approach is to introduce the `exp_launch_property_t` type that enables a more
> extendable API.
> 
> Each `exp_launch_property_t` instance corresponds to a specific kernel launch
> property.
> Only one new function is introduced: `urEnqueueKernelLaunchCustomExp`.
> `urEnqueueKernelLaunchCustomExp` takes an array of `exp_launch_property_t` as
> an argument, and launches a kernel using these properties.
> `urEnqueueKernelLaunchCustomExp` corresponds closely to the CUDA Driver API
> `cuLaunchKernelEx`.

Reviewer: Single backticks render as italics in reStructuredText. Also when using `${x}` for the ur prefixes those don't render well in inline monospace because the templates generate cross-links. 

```suggestion
This extension is a future-proof and portable solution that supports these two
requirements. Instead of using a fixed set of kernel enqueue arguments, the
approach is to introduce the ${x}_exp_launch_property_t type that enables a
more extendable API.

Each ${x}_exp_launch_property_t instance corresponds to a specific kernel
launch property.
Only one new function is introduced: ${x}EnqueueKernelLaunchCustomExp.
${x}EnqueueKernelLaunchCustomExp takes an array of ${x}_exp_launch_property_t
as an argument, and launches a kernel using these properties.
${x}EnqueueKernelLaunchCustomExp corresponds closely to the CUDA Driver API
``cuLaunchKernelEx``.
```

Author: Thanks looks good.

Many kernel lauch properties can be supported, such as cooperative kernel
launches. As such, eventually this extension should be able to replace the
cooperative kernels Unified-Runtime extension.

API
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Macros
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ${X}_LAUNCH_PROPERTIES_EXTENSION_STRING_EXP

Enums
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ${x}_exp_launch_property_id_t

Unions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ${x}_exp_launch_property_value_t

Structs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ${x}_exp_launch_property_t

Functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ${x}EnqueueKernelLaunchCustomExp

Support
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adapters which support this experimental feature *must* return the valid string

> defined in ``${X}_LAUNCH_PROPERTIES_EXTENSION_STRING_EXP`` as one of the options from

Reviewer: The `${X}` will not render well in an inline monospace.

```suggestion
defined in ${X}_LAUNCH_PROPERTIES_EXTENSION_STRING_EXP as one of the options from
```

Author: I see thanks.
